[release] v5.12.3 (#37133)
mui/material-ui: CHANGELOG.md

# [Versions](https://mui.com/versions/)

## 5.12.3

<!-- generated comparing v5.12.2..master -->

_May 2, 2023_

A big thanks to the 18 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- all planned breaking changes for Base UI are done. The first beta release should come next week 🎉
- 🐛 bug fixes and 📚 documentation improvements.

### `@mui/material@5.12.3`

- &#8203;<!-- 43 -->[Accordion] Add missing `component` type (#37111) @sai6855
- &#8203;<!-- 23 -->[ButtonGroup] Should not retain divider color when it is disabled and variant is `text` (#36967) @DavidBoyer11
- &#8203;<!-- 21 -->[Divider] Fix styles on dividers with text (#35072) @maxdestors
- &#8203;<!-- 04 -->[TextField] Improve IntelliSense support for props (#36737) @sai6855
- &#8203;<!-- 03 -->[TextField] Fix running click event on disabled (#36892) @sai6855

### `@mui/joy@5.0.0-alpha.78`

- &#8203;<!-- 09 -->[Joy] Miscellaneous fixes and docs improvement (#37026) @siriwatknp

### `@mui/base@5.0.0-alpha.128`

#### Breaking changes

> - The `component` prop was dropped, because it was duplicated with the slots API. This is how the transformation will look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `component` prop is no longer supported because it can be replaced with the slots API. This is how the transformation will look like:
```

  - &#8203;<!-- 32 -->[Modal][base] Drop component prop (#37058) @hbjORbj
  - &#8203;<!-- 31 -->[Option][base] Drop component prop (#37052) @hbjORbj
  - &#8203;<!-- 30 -->[OptionGroup][base] Drop component prop (#37055) @hbjORbj
  - &#8203;<!-- 31 -->[Popper][base] Drop component prop (#37084) @hbjORbj
  - &#8203;<!-- 29 -->[Select][base] Drop component prop (#37035) @hbjORbj
  - &#8203;<!-- 28 -->[Slider][base] Drop component prop (#37056) @hbjORbj
  - &#8203;<!-- 27 -->[Snackbar][base] Drop component prop (#37041) @nicolas-ot
  - &#8203;<!-- 26 -->[Switch][base] Drop component prop (#37053) @hbjORbj
  - &#8203;<!-- 25 -->[Tab][base] Drop component prop (#36768) @sai6855
  - &#8203;<!-- 24 -->[Tabs][base] Drop component prop (#36770) @sai6855
  - &#8203;<!-- 08 -->[TablePagination][base] Drop component prop (#37059) @sai6855
  - &#8203;<!-- 07 -->[TabPanel][base] Drop component prop (#37054) @sai6855
  - &#8203;<!-- 06 -->[TabsList][base] Drop component prop (#37042) @sai6855

- &#8203;<!-- 41 -->[base] Improve API consistency (#36970) @michaldudak

  Brought consistency to Base UI components and hooks' parameters and return values:

>   1. Whenever a hook needs a ref, it's now called <slot_name>Ref, which matches the get<slot_name>Props` in the return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Whenever a hook needs a ref, it's now called `<slot_name>Ref`, which matches the `get<slot_name>Props` in the return value.
```

>   2. All hooks that accept external refs now return merged refs, so combining multiple hooks on one element is easier. This was proven necessary in several compound components (like menuItem being both a button and a list item). The type of this value is React.RefCallback as using the more general React.Ref caused variance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. All hooks that accept external refs now return merged refs, making combining multiple hooks on one element easier. This was proven necessary in several compound components (like menuItem being both a button and a list item). The type of this value is `React.RefCallback` as using the more general `React.Ref` caused variance issues.
```

>   3. Type of accepted refs was standardized to React.Ref<Element>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. Type of accepted refs is standardized to `React.Ref<Element>`
```
